We've now gotten that streaming server up and running inside of our Kubernetes cluster.
In this video, I want to give you a quick overview on how Nat streaming server differs from that custom
event bus we had put together back in our first application, we're going to focus on some high level
items and then immediately after that, we're going to start to work on a very small, little stand
alone project to get a better idea of how we interact with that streaming server and some of its different
properties.
So let's get to it.
So we're going to take a look at a couple of different diagrams.
In every one of these diagrams, I'm going to show you something that our custom event bus so we had
previously built did and then we'll compare that to how that streaming server behaves.
The first thing I want to think about is how we communicated events between different things with that
custom event bus we had previously built.
So with the custom event bus, we might have had some service that would build up an event.
And then we use Axios to make a post request directly over to that custom event bus.
The Custom Event Bus was running a copy of Express, so it listened for incoming post requests.
It would receive that event and then internally take the event and make its own post request using Axios
out to some other service inside our application.
And those other services were running their own copies of Express that would listen for incoming events.
So this was a very simplistic approach where we basically relied upon the libraries of Axios and Express.
That was pretty much it.
Now that we're using that streaming server, however, we're not going to be using Express or Axios
to share events around our application.
Instead, we are going to use a client library that is specifically designed to work with Nat streaming
server.
The client library that we're going to use is called Node Nat's streaming.
Let's take a look at the documentation for it on NPM right now.
I'm going to open up a new browser tab and navigate to NPM chess.com.
Once here I will look up node nats streaming.
Here's the documentation for it.
Now, there's a lot of stuff in here that is just chock full of information.
There's a lot of stuff going on inside of here.
And unfortunately, whereas a lot of libraries out there, you can kind of just skim over it and say,
Oh, yeah, I know what's going on, and then reference it in the future any time some specific problem
comes up.
Unfortunately, with this library and that streaming server, it is kind of important to understand
the internals or how the stuff is really working from the get go.
So that's why we're going to do a little stand alone project to work just with that streaming server
by itself and not worry about any services or Kubernetes or anything like that.
We're going to have this little standalone project just we can understand these very important internal
mechanics.
They're going to be critical for us to use to properly communicate data throughout our application.
The one thing I do want to point out around this documentation right away, if you take a look at the
basic usage section, you'll notice that to work with this library, we've got a very event based kind
of architecture.
So in other words, if you're familiar with event emitter in Node.js or any other kind of eventing library
where we emit events and listen to them in plain JavaScript code, that is really how this library works.
So we're going to create some objects.
We're going to set up event listeners, and we're going to emit events as well.
It all works with a very heavily callback based kind of infrastructure.
So unfortunately we are going to be relying quite a bit on callbacks with this library as opposed to
using async await or anything like that.
All right, back over to our diagram.
So we're going to, like I said, be using no net streaming to create events, send them over to that
streaming server, and then that streaming server is going to send those out to our different services,
which will be listening for events, also using the node net streaming library.
So we're not going to have Axios or Express dedicated solely to handling events or anything like that.
We will of course still use Axios or Express for normal HTTP requests and so on.
I just mean to say that for all the event related stuff, we're going to be using node nets streaming.
Okay.
Second thing here.
So with our custom event bus.
Any time we emitted an event, that event was sent over to every single service.
So for example.
If we had our ticket service, emit an event of ticket update event.
We received it on our custom event plus and we send a copy of it off to our order service and whatever
other service.
Now of course we didn't actually have these services in our first application.
I just mean to say if we had to use this custom event plus in our current app, this is how it would
work.
So we would receive an event and throw it off to every different service.
Technically, even the service that had sent it to the event bus, the technically an event or the same
event went directly back to the ticket service, which was not super useful.
So as you guess, no doubt streaming is going to be very different in nature.
That streaming is going to require us to subscribe to specific channels.
So a channel, we're also going to use the term topic somewhat interchangeably.
These are essentially types of events or channels of events that we're going to be listening to specifically
inside of our different services.
So for example, on the NAT streaming server, we will create a collection of different topics or channels.
We're going to use that term pretty interchangeably.
Then whenever we want to emit some kind of event, we will create it inside of one service.
We will reach out to the node gnat streaming library and we will tell it.
Publish this event to the ticket colon updated channel so that event will be emitted out of our ticket
service.
It will go over to this channel on no net streaming and then the event will be sent along to only the
services that are listening on that very specific channel.
So for example, if our order service is listening for events on Ticket Colon updated, then it will
receive a copy of this event.
But if some other service, such as, say, payment service, was not listening to that channel, it
would not receive it.
So no longer does one event get sent everywhere.
Instead, we have to specifically say, here are the different topics or channels that we care about.
These are the different topics or channels that are going to exist, and then we have to specifically
subscribe to them inside of our different services to actually receive those events.
All right, onto the next diagram.
So next thing, back with our custom event bus.
We had put together a memory store of sorts to store all the different events that were ever emitted.
So, for example, if we had our ticket service, emit an event again of ticket updated, we would store
that inside of a in memory array.
It would of course also be emitted to all of our different services, but we held on to a copy of it
as well.
This feature right here was absolutely critical, so we could handle temporary downtime of any given
service if some service went offline for some very brief period of time.
It could then come back online and ask for a list of all the different events that had ever been emitted.
And so we could make sure that some service that was down for some period could come back online and
fetch or retrieve all the data or events it had missed during that period.
This is also fantastic.
For any time we needed to add in a new service.
So for example, if we decided to create a new service and add it into our application, maybe in this
case we called it payment service.
The payment service could then reach out to the event boss and say, Hey, give me a listing of all
the different events that have ever been emitted.
So we could then take our big list of events, send them all down, and then the payment service or
whatever news service this is, would then be magically and suddenly up to date with all the relevant
data inside of our app.
So this idea of storing memory or storing events somehow was really critical for handling outages or
handling any new service we pulled up as well.
Now streaming server has a very similar idea, but it's way more complex and robust.
So the net streaming server, it's going to store all the different events that get emitted in memory
by default.
However, we can also customize it to store these events inside of flat files stored on a hard drive
or even inside of a database like MySQL or post grass.
So again, for example, ticket service could emit an event over to that streaming server.
It will be stored inside of memory.
And simultaneously a copy of that event will be sent out to all the relevant services.
If we then at some point in time bring a payment service or some new service online, it can reach out
to that streaming server, ask for a copy of all the different events, and that streaming server will
respond with all the relevant events that it has missed out on.
So the same thing is true if we decide to store all these events on a flat file, MySQL database or
post grass as well.
So I'm not going to go through drawing out the entire diagram.
I think you get the idea here.
If we might emit an event over to that streaming server, we can configure it so these these events
get stored inside of some file or database.
So now if our NAT streaming server server ever goes offline or has to be restarted, of course it loses
everything stored in memory.
But if we stored those events inside of a file or database, then after the Nat streaming server comes
back online, it could connect to that database or that file.
Take a look at it and say, Oh, okay, here's all the different events that have ever been emitted.
Okay.
So that is it.
Those are some very high level notes on some critical differences between our event bus and Nats streaming
server.
So the big ticket items here are that we're going to use this custom little client library called no
net streaming to communicate.
Next up with not streaming, we have to create these things that are called topics or we're also going
to use the term channels for them and then our services have to specifically subscribe to events from
these specific channels.
And then finally, very similar to our custom event, plus we can have Nat streaming server store all
these events in memory or alternatively store them inside of a file or database as well.
So now that we understand some of these very core differences, we're going to take a pause right here
and start writing some code in the next video.